Fallback Strategy For Older Browsers
====================================

One of the nice features of HTML and CSS is *dinosaur-resistance* as I like to
call it. You can use awesome CSS3 or HTML5 features and you will not break the
basic principle of a web site in older browsers because they will simply ignore
them.

Well, if you try at least a little.

Main Content and Functionality Should Be Available In All Browsers
------------------------------------------------------------------

If you break some irrelevant parts of a web site in older browsers, it does not
matter. However, unless you have very good reasons for not doing so, it is
almost always possible to provide users with a fully functional website even in
very old browsers.

It is not just about accessibility and "fair play" towards these disadvantaged
users. It is also about contemporary mobile browsers. Just take the wide range
of Android Browser versions (and supplier modifications), Opera Mini or e-reader
browsers... It is not humanly possible to test them all. But a bulletproof
solution will do it for you.

And now, imagine browsers that are yet to come - browsers in smart watch, cars,
TVs, or... well, in fridges. You say people will not use them? It might be
possible but we thought the same about the iPhone browser.

Therefore, using a "*dinosaur-resistant*" technical solution with respect to the
lowest common denominator will pay off in the future.

Progressive Enhancement
-----------------------

>   When an elevator fails, itâ€™s useless. When an escalator fails, it becomes
>   stairs. We should be building escalators, not elevators.

*Jeremy Keith*

The aim of progressive enhancement is to guarantee content or main function
accessibility, regardless of the user's technological equipment.

Progressive enhancement is an approach that will guarantee
"*dinosaur-resistance*" of your code so now let's take a look at various
strategies for older browsers.
