Other Tools and Web Sites
=========================

Let's take it briefly now.

HTML5 Please
------------

The "HTML5 Please" website will tell you when and under what conditions you
should use any given CSS3 or HTML5 property. For example, it will tell you
whether to use a property with a vendor prefix or with a polyfill. It will also
advise you not to use some of them. Take it as general recommendation always
take the target group of your project into account. See it at
[html5please.com](<http://html5please.com>)

Can I use
---------

This website is generating tables with an overview of browsers that support or
do not support any given property. If you want to remember one site only, this
is it. It is also possible to connect "Can I use" to your Google Analytics
stats. However, the ratio of supported properties on a global scale does not
have any predictive value for a particular project. See more ate
[caniuse.com](<http://caniuse.com>)

Should I prefix
---------------

At this website, you will find out whether to used a prefixed version or not. It
may come in handy but a much netter way is to use an Autoprefixer mentioned in
preious chapters. See more at [shouldiprefix.com](<http://shouldiprefix.com>)

Modernizr
---------

This is a Javascript library for feature detection. Choose any CSS3 or HTML5
features you will use on your project and the Modernizr website will generate
code you insert into your own source code. Then, in CSS you can use conditions
such as `.no-flexbox .form` and in Javascript conditions like `if
(Modernizr.canvas) { … }`. See more at [modernizr.com](<http://modernizr.com>)

Project Templates
-----------------

If you are tired of stating projects from scratch, take a look at HTML5
Boilerplate, a default HTML file template. For me, it has proved to be a good
knowledge base but I do not use it on real projects. See more
at[html5boilerplate.com](<https://html5boilerplate.com>)

If you are looking for a massive project base, Web Starter Kit by Google is the
right choice. Apart from providing you with default HTML, CSS and JS files,
there is a ready-made Gulp workflow. See more at
[developers.google.com/web/starter-kit/](<https://developers.google.com/web/starter-kit/>)

Last, there are tons of templates suitable for a project kickoff in Yeoman. Some
are complex, some contain generators. See more at
[yeoman.io/generators/](<http://yeoman.io/generators/>)

Documentation
-------------

You can find a topnotch documentation of new web technologies (including CSS3)
at Mozilla Developer Network. See more at –
[developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS3](<https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS3>).

Advanced Tools
--------------

As I wrote in the indtroduction of this chapter, do not overstate tools for
developers. This e-book is focused on beginners and intermediate UI developers.
V e-booku se soustředím na méně až středně pokročilého vývojáře uživatelského
rozhraní. If you think of ourselves as advanced developers you should take a
look at the following tools: Broccoli, Browserify, Webpack or CSSNext. If you
deal with Javascript, take a look at Babel and Traceur.
