Less Photoshop, More Code
=========================

What is one of the biggest mistakes of web design? Photoshop, as the leading
creative tool! I am very glad that with the advent of responsive web design, a
general opinion that Photoshop should not play such a significant part in web
design, is starting to spread. And I certainly hope that PSD to HTML coding will
soon end up in a museum, right next to a floppy disk.

How does this relate to CSS3? Somewhat like Tom to Jerry. Meaning very.

In this "dark age", all website graphics that was not possible to tackle using
CSS, was exported from Photoshop as images. CSS3 has brought a way of creating
not only static graphics but simple interactions as well.

And if we can express something using a code, it is very simple to interlink the
visual part with a browser experience. Certain attempts have already been made -
take Sketch, Adobe Edge Reflow or WebFlow for instance. They export code or
parts of it and are certainly much better adapted to the needs of today's web
design in terms of workflow - they support SVG and responsive design.

Coders really appreciate tools such as Brackets or Avocode which address the
issue from their perspectives and parts of the code from the source graphics are
generated automatically.

We certainly cannot forget about UI libraries such as Bootstrap. Thanks to these
libraries, programmers can do without graphic designers or front-end developers.

Teams that develop their own web products have found that rather than drawing
tons of screens in Photoshop, the most effective way is to create their own
Bootstrap. Web user interfaces and web apps in particular can be dealt with as a
jigsaw puzzle made of separate components. Reusable lego parts if you will.

As a front-end designer, I have interesting experience with designing responsive
web sites in a browser. However, combining HTML and CSS design with a graphic
editor would force me to release a whole book on this topic. So let's not go
there.

If your team's workflow allows you to, try to experiment and use one of the
above-mentioned approaches.
