Too Many Browsers Will Give You a Headache
==========================================

The arrival of a Chrome desktop launched new Browser Wars and the first Battle
of Browsers took place on the mobile device battlefield. Yes, coders have been
better.

So let's take a look what a relevant browser is:

-   Desktop: Chrome, Firefox, Internet Explorer (versions 11, 10, 9, 8), Opera,
    *Safari*

-   Mobile device: Android Browser (*versions 2.3*, 4.x and 5), Safari Mobile,
    Chrome Mobile, *Internet Explorer Mobile*, *Opera Mini*, *Opera Mobile*

Browsers that need special attention if the website traffic is high, are
highlighted in italics. Also, take a look in your own statistics to see if the
optimization pays off.

I have to optimize for all these browsers? Do not worry. Ensuring availability
of the main content in all browsers is possible even if you are using CSS3
technologies described in this text.

Now let's take a look at usage share of web browsers of big Czech websites
according to Gemius (rankings.cz):

![Desktop browsers stats](<images/statistiky-prohlizece-desktop.jpg>)

The mobile stats are as follows:

![Mobile browsers stats](<images/statistiky-prohlizece-mobil.jpg>)

It is necessary to put Internet Explorer aside because it behaves a little
different when it comes to some CSS3 properties. The second reason is the
missing automatic update which most other browsers have.

Now, let's make an exception and focus on one of them.

Mobile Chrome
-------------

The usage share of Chrome on mobile devices is rapidly increasing so it is good
to mention that on new Androids, it has replaced the original browser. The one
with the globe icon, labeled „Internet“.

Unlike the „older cousin“, the mobile Chrome will have an automatic update on
some devices. Not to mention that it is much better at supporting CSS3 and other
HTML5 technologies. See
[html5test.com](<https://html5test.com/results/mobile.html>).

Chrome also has an iOS version, however it is a kind of pseudo-Chrome.

Pseudo-browsers
---------------

In iOS, it is not possible to install a browser with its own rendering engine.
Therefore, iOS Chrome and all other alternative browsers are mere user
interfaces - the actual websites are rendered using mobile Safari.

Some statistics show that websites are accessed through Facebook interface.
Displaying a website in apps of this social network is done through a
pseudo-browser. The rendering itself is done using the core of the default
browser of a given platform: using Chrome, Android browser on Android, mobile
Safari on iOS or Internet Explorer on Windows Phone.
