Too Many Browsers Will Give You a Headache
==========================================

The arrival of the Chrome desktop browser launched the new “Browser Wars” and the
first “Battle of the Browsers” took place on the battlefield of mobile devices.
Yes, coders have been better.

So let’s take a look at what browsers are relevant:

-   Desktops: Chrome, Firefox, Internet Explorer (versions 8, 9, 10 and 11),
    Opera and *Safari.*
-   Mobile devices: Android Browser (*versions 2.3*, 4.x and 5), Safari Mobile,
    Chrome Mobile, *Internet Explorer Mobile*, *Opera Mini* and *Opera Mobile.*

Browsers that need special attention if website traffic is high are highlighted
in italics. Also, take a look in your own statistics to see if any optimization
pays off.

You may ask: do I have to optimize for all these browsers? Don’t worry. Ensuring
availability of the main content is possible in all browsers even if you are
using the CSS3 technologies described in this text.

Now, let’s take an example and focus on one browser.

Chrome Mobile
-------------

The usage share of Chrome on mobile devices is rapidly increasing, so it is good
to mention that it has replaced the original browser on new Android devices. It
is the one with the globe icon labeled “Internet”.

Unlike its “older brother”, the mobile Chrome will have an automatic update on
some devices. Not to mention that it is much better at supporting CSS3 and other
HTML5 technologies. See
[html5test.com](https://html5test.com/results/mobile.html).

Chrome comes in an iOS version as well, however, that is a kind of
pseudo-Chrome.

Pseudo-Browsers
---------------

In iOS, it is not possible to install a browser with its own rendering engine.
Therefore, iOS Chrome and all other alternative browsers are mere user
interfaces. The actual websites are rendered using mobile Safari.

To give you another example of a pseudo-browser, statistics show that some
websites are accessed through the Facebook interface. Displaying a website in
social-networking apps of this kind is possible thanks to a pseudo-browser. The
rendering itself is done using the core of the default browser of a given
platform, using Chrome, an Android browser on Android, mobile Safari on iOS or
Internet Explorer on a Windows Phone.
